So we talked about content.
Now let's move on to simple design elements that I'd like you to use.
The first, use a clean and simple design.
Try not to get too fancy and keep it easy to read
and comprehend by your audience.
Keep your text simple by using bullet points or short sentences
and try to keep each one to one line only,
that is without text wrapping.
You can remove articles such as a and the sometimes to
help reduce the word count on a line.
You want your audience to listen to your presentation of your information
rather than read the screen or read the presentation.
And use a Sans-Serif font for body text, just like this slide.
If you choose a different font, be sure they're easy to read.
Choose a font style that your audience can read from a distance as well.
That's why I'm suggesting Sans-Serif or without Serif
and you can see with the two arrows.
The yellow arrow on the left shows the little serifs on
there and on the right there are none, so one serif on the left,
one sans-serif on the right and like this presentation itself,
you'll know that it is Sans-Serif and avoid narrow fonts such
as Arial Narrow and avoid fonts that include fancy edges such
as Times and things like that.
Use dark text on a light background.
Just like this slide.
Align left or right, just like this slide, and check your spelling.
Nothing is more annoying or embarrassing as misspellings.
To earn and maintain the respect of your audience,
always check the spelling and grammar on your presentation and of course,
Power Point has Spell-check in it,
though at times it can be inaccurate so be careful and proofread.
Be creative.
Remember, these are rules of thumb.
There is no one perfect approach to presentations so be creative.
And I have a few more on the next slide.
Now here are a few more simple design elements I'd like you to consider.
Make labels for charts and graphs understandable.
Use only enough text to make label elements in a chart or graph comprehensible.
For example, on the left.
I have the chart unnecessary detail, population in China, etc.
A lot of words over there, but on the right it's just a little clearer: China,
India, United States, etc.
So it's a little clearer and easier to read.
Next, make slide background subtle.
For example, on the left again,
I like the subtle contrast on the one on the right
where on the left it has the gray,
a little harder to read and that's the next point as well.
Choose a compelling template.
A consistent template or theme that is not too
eye-catchy and not too wild or crazy,
and you don't want a background or design to detract from your message either.
And use high contrast between background color and text color.
It just makes your text and graphics so much easier to
read and they kind of pop out at you,
such as the text color on this slide and the background being white.
Very clean, very easy to read.
And you can also art to help convey your message,
but when you use art in graphics to tell your story,
don't overwhelm your audience by adding too many graphics to the slide,
okay?
Use art and graphics to help tell your story.
Don't overwhelm your audience by adding too many graphics to a slide.
Don't make me think!
If the audience has to think too much, they will miss your point.
Keep it simple and to the point.
And lastly, you can use the previous slides as a quick check list.
After you put together your presentation,
go through each bullet to see if you are following
the guidelines and if you are not, that might be okay.
If you believe what you have done is helping you
deliver your message effectively. Okay, now let's move on to the next session on productive meetings.